####Sungyoon Hong
####4th Writing Assignment
####Cenzoic latitudinal response curves: individualistic changes in the latitudinal distributions of marine bivalves and gastropods by Andrew A. Zaffos and Arnold I. Miller (2015)

####[Article Summary]
In this paper, Zaffos and Miller try to find out latitudinal distribution of Cenozoic mollusks (bivalves & gastropods) throughout epoch-to-epoch, stage-to-stage scales. The authors execute Gaussian logistic regression and canonical correspondence analysis to figure out each genus' preferred latitude. From their results, firstly, Zaffos and Miller found out that the result show ubiquitous “hollow-curve” shape pattern `(only in the first differences of changes in preferred lat and in lat tolerance)` which is thought to be shown from higher occurrence of smaller changes than higher changes within the curves `(not much ambiguity in what the cuves show, but there is room for flexibility in defining how to interpret them)`. Furthermore, these curves are showing consistency. The authors conclude that this consistency show that, over epoch-to-epoch scale to stage-to-stage scale, there are no significant latitudinal variance going on within Cenozoic mollusks.`(they really say that most changes are small)`  They explain that this is due to Cenozoic mollusks’ geographical conservatism. Secondly, Zaffos and Miller discovered that there no poleward expansion was observed despite the environmental changes during Cenozoic. The authors discussed many ideas to explain this and they suggested that the “masking out” the data of poleward expansion due to the abundance of tropical genus is the most favorable explanation for their results. In conclusion, Zaffos and Miller found out that there’s no latitudinal preference of Cenozoic mollusks throughout the Cenozoic and this signifies the ecological conservatism of mollusk genus.  
> This is a pretty good summary! Be sure to connect the data used/analysis conducted with your description of meaning. Two distinct analyses (response curves vs. changes in those curves between intervals) were confused a little.

####[Thing I liked about the paper]
First thing I liked about this paper is that the authors use various methods to overcome the limitation of fossil records (in PBDB), and statistical errors. At first, they use Gaussian logistic regression as their major analytical method. However, they acknowledge the limitation of GLR and use canonical correspondence analysis to overcome the limitation and reinforce their credibility of the data. 
> Did they really overcome the limitations of the PBDB?

Second thing I liked about this paper is that Zaffos and Miller discuss various reasons to explain their results.`(the fact that they discussed them is not the important part! do you agree with the interpretations/explanations?)` I personally like to see problems in various directions. `(what does this mean? what problems in what directions?)` In addition to their favorable scenario, they provide the other plausible explanations and limitations to give deeper insight about this issue. 
> I would be more specific here with respect to the results and interpretations.

####[Thing I didn’t like about the paper]
They didn’t explain about whether their data was affected from limited amount of number of genera in PBDB. I feel like, in this paper, the authors are trying to settle down with the available data. Even though it is always big problem in paleontology, I would like to see the alternative scenarios outside of their data. For example, even though their data show there is no actual latitudinal difference between tropical and extratropical genus from their available data, this might not be the actual fact if other fossil data or other ecological facts are considered. Like taphonomy, current direction, and variability in tolerance (I would love to see more discussion about overall tolerance about mollusks. Introduction was somewhat short that it did not provide much background information). Moreover, I feel like the paper is trying to go straight through the conclusion. For me it feels like “I got this data, we put it in the curve to generate the pattern, and this is our data. And this is why our data is right” order. It didn’t provide any points outside their points. Maybe this is my preference, but I would love to see more compositional and detail view of this matter. 
> You have arrived at a criticism that many professional paleontologists use when describing PBDB-related papers!

####[Evaluate the graphs and figures]
There are 3 figures and 1 table in this paper. 2 figures and 1 table are showing the result of their data. And remain 1 figure show the occurrence of tropical and extratropical taxon throughout the epochs. They are very useful figures because it gives me visualization about overall result of their research and clearly shows that ubiquitous “hollow curve” is presented. However, it would be better if there’s figure about summarization of their point rather than just result-showing figures.

> Not a bad summary. Try to avoid general statements (e.g., "deeper insight about this issue"). Instead, zero in on data/methods/interpretations specifically.
